The Waterfall Model was the first Process Model to be introduced. It is also referred to as a linear-sequential life cycle model. 
It is very simple to understand and use. 
In a waterfall model, each phase must be completed before the next phase can begin and there is no overlapping in the phases.

The Waterfall model is the earliest SDLC approach that was used for software development.

The waterfall Model illustrates the software development process in a linear sequential flow. 
This means that any phase in the development process begins only if the previous phase is complete. In this waterfall model, the phases do not overlap.


advantages of the Waterfall Model:

Simple and easy to understand and use

Easy to manage due to the rigidity of the model. Each phase has specific deliverables and a review process.

Phases are processed and completed one at a time.

Works well for smaller projects where requirements are very well understood.

Clearly defined stages.

Well understood milestones.

Easy to arrange tasks.

Process and results are well documented.


disadvantages of the Waterfall Model:

No working software is produced until late during the life cycle.

High amounts of risk and uncertainty.

Not a good model for complex and object-oriented projects.

Poor model for long and ongoing projects.

It is difficult to measure progress within stages.


V-model is the most important model that is used in the process of software testing. 
It is also known as Verification and Validation Model. It is Introduced by the late Paul Rook in 1980s. 
V-model is a sequential process in which the next phase begins only after the completion of the present phase. 
In this model, steps don’t move in a linear way while the steps are bent upwards.

It is similar to Waterfall model because we follow V-model from left to right as well as follow a sequential path of execution of processes like as in waterfall model.
in waterfall model steps are followed as requirements, design, implementation, verification and finally maintenance. 
In the same way, the same steps are followed in V-model. So we can say that V-model is the alternate of the waterfall model.


Advantages of V-model:

Simple and easy to use.
Testing activities like planning, test designing happens well before coding. This saves a lot of time. Hence higher chance of success over the waterfall model.
Proactive defect tracking – that is defects are found at early stage.
Avoids the downward flow of the defects.
Works well for small projects where requirements are easily understood.

Disadvantages of V-model:

Very rigid and least flexible.
Software is developed during the implementation phase, so no early prototypes of the software are produced.
If any changes happen in midway, then the test documents along with requirement documents has to be updated.




